---
Date: 2025-11-30
Technology: AWS
tags:
  - Cloud
  - DevOps
---
**Table of contents:**

- [13. Machine Learning](#13-machine-learning)
  - [AWS Rekognition](#aws-rekognition)
  - [Text-to-Speech \& Speech-to-Text](#text-to-speech--speech-to-text)
    - [Amazon Transcribe](#amazon-transcribe)
    - [Amazon Polly](#amazon-polly)
  - [Amazon Translate](#amazon-translate)
  - [Amazon Lex \& Connect](#amazon-lex--connect)
    - [Amazon Lex](#amazon-lex)
    - [Amazon Connect](#amazon-connect)
  - [Amazon Comprehend](#amazon-comprehend)
  - [Document Extraction](#document-extraction)
    - [Amazon Kendra](#amazon-kendra)
  - [Textract](#textract)
  - [SageMaker AI](#sagemaker-ai)
  - [Amazon Personalize](#amazon-personalize)

# 13. Machine Learning

## AWS Rekognition

AWS Rekognition is an **image and video analysis service** to detect objects, scenes, faces, text and activities using ML.

Use cases:

- Object & scene detection;
- Text detection in images/videos;
- Facial analysis. (E.g. age range, emotions, gender, etc.);
- Content moderation;
- Face comparison & recognition.

## Text-to-Speech & Speech-to-Text

### Amazon Transcribe

Amazon Transcribe is a service that **converts speech to text** using automatic speech recognition (ASR).

Use cases:

- Call transcription for contact centers;
- Closed captioning for media;
- Metadata generation for audio/video;
- Automatically redact personally identifiable information (PII).

### Amazon Polly

Amazon Polly is a service that converts text to speech using deep learning technology.

(Opposite of [Transcribe](#amazon-transcribe)).

Use cases:

- Virtual assistants;
- Content narration.

## Amazon Translate

Amazon Translate is a fully managed **neural machine translation service** for fast, high quality, real-time language translation.

Use cases:

- Multilingual applications;
- Website localization;
- Customer support chat.

## Amazon Lex & Connect

### Amazon Lex

Amazon Lex is a **service for building conversational interfaces** using voice and text, (powered by the same tech as Alexa).

Integrated with [Connect](#amazon-connect) for intelligent customer service bots.

### Amazon Connect

Amazon Connect is a cloud-based **contact center service to provide customer service** at scale.

Can use [Lex](#amazon-lex) for automated conversations.

## Amazon Comprehend

Amazon Comprehend is a Natural Language Processing, (NLP), **service to extract insights and relationships from unstructured text**.

Use cases:

- Sentiment analysis;
- Entity recognition;
- Topic modeling;
- Language detection.

## Document Extraction

### Amazon Kendra

Amazon Kendra is an intelligent search service that **uses ML to provide accurate and context-aware search results** across internal documents.

It can index FAQs, manuals, policies and structured/unstructured content from data sources like SharePoint, [S3](05.%20Amazon%20S3.md#05--amazon-s3), databases, etc.

## Textract

Textract is an ML based OCR **service that extracts test, handwriting and structured data** from scanned documents.

Use cases:

- Invoice and receipt processing;
- Document automation;
- Data extraction from forms.

## SageMaker AI

SageMaker is a fully managed **service to build, train, tune and deploy machine learning models** at scale.

It includes built-in algorithms, Jupyter notebooks, model tuning and deployment endpoints.

Use cases:

- Predictive analytics;
- Fraud detection;
- Personalized recommendations.

## Amazon Personalize

Amazon Personalize is a **service for building real-time personalized recommendations** using the same tech as Amazon.

Use cases:

- Product recommendations;
- Content ranking;
- Personalized marketing messages.