---
Date: 2025-11-30
Technology: AWS
tags:
  - Cloud
  - DevOps
---
**Table of contents:**

- [15. Well Architectured Framework](#15-well-architectured-framework)
  - [Pillar 1: Operational Excellence](#pillar-1-operational-excellence)
  - [Pillar 2: Security](#pillar-2-security)
  - [Pillar 3: Reliability](#pillar-3-reliability)
  - [Pillar 4: Performance Efficiency](#pillar-4-performance-efficiency)
  - [Pillar 5: Cost Optimization](#pillar-5-cost-optimization)
  - [Pillar 6: Sustainability](#pillar-6-sustainability)

# 15. Well Architectured Framework

The Well Architectured Framework is made up of 6 pillars.

## Pillar 1: Operational Excellence

Operational Excellence includes the the ability to run and monitor systems to deliver business value and to continually improve supporting processes and procedures.

Design Principles:

- **Perform operations as code** - Infrastructure as code. (Terraform, [CloudFormation](12.%20Infrastructure%20Management.md#cloudformation). etc.);
- **Make frequent, small, reversible changes** - So that in case of any failure you can reverse it;
- **Refine operations procedures frequently** - And ensure that team members are familiar with it;
- **Anticipate failure** - In case of failure, learn from it;
- **Use managed services** - To reduce operational burden;
- **Implement observability for actionable insights** - Performance, reliability, cost, etc.

## Pillar 2: Security

Security includes the ability to protect information, systems and assets while delivering business value through risk assessments and mitigation strategies.

Design Principles:

- **Implement a strong identity foundation** - Centralize privilege management and reduce (or even eliminate) reliance on long-term credentials. (Principle of least privilege). [IAM](03.%20IAM.md#03.%20IAM).
- **Enable traceability** - Integrate logs and metrics with systems to automatically respond and take action;
- **Apply security at all layers** - Like edge network, [VPC](09.%20VPCs%20&%20Networking.md#vpcs--subnets), [subnet](09.%20VPCs%20&%20Networking.md#vpcs--subnets), load balancer, every instance, operating system and application;
- **Protect data in transit and at rest** - Encryption, tokenization and access control;
- **Keep people away from data** - Reduce or eliminate the need for direct access or manual processing of data;
- **Prepare for security events** - Run incident response simulations and use tools with automation to increase your speed for detection, investigation and recovery.

## Pillar 3: Reliability

Reliability includes the ability of a system to recover from infrastructure or service disruptions, dynamically acquire computing resources to meet demand and mitigate disruptions such as misconfigurations or transient network issues.

Design Principles:

- **Test recovery procedures** - Use automation to simulate different failures or to recreate scenarios that led to failures before;
- **Automatically recover from failure** - Anticipate and remediate failures before they occur;
- **Scale horizontally to increase aggregate system availability** - Distribute requests across multiple, smaller resources to ensure that they don't share a common point of failure;
- **Stop guessing capacity** - Maintain the optimal level to satisfy demand without over or under provisioning. (Use auto scaling).
- **Manage change in automation** - Use automation to make changes to infrastructure.

## Pillar 4: Performance Efficiency

Performance includes the ability to use computing resources efficiently to meet system requirements and to maintain that efficiency as demand changes and technologies evolve.

Design Principles:

- **Democratize advanced technologies** - Advance technologies become services and hence you can focus more on product development;
- **Go global in minutes** - East deployment in multiple regions;
- **Use serverless architectures** - Avoid burden of managing servers;
- **Experiment more often** - Easy to carry out comparative testing;
- **Mechanical sympathy** - Be aware of all AWS services.

## Pillar 5: Cost Optimization

Cost Optimization includes the ability to run systems to deliver business value at the lowest price point.

Design Principles:

- **Adopt a consumption mode** - Pay only for what you use;
- **Measure overall efficiency** - Use [CloudWatch](11.%20Cloud%20Monitoring.md#cloudwatch);
- **Stop spending money on data center operations** - AWS does the infrastructure part and enables customers to focus on organization projects;
- **Analyze and attribute expenditure** - Accurate identification of system usage and costs helps measure return on investment (ROI) - Make sure to use tags;
- **Use managed and application level services to reduce cost of ownership** - As managed services operate at cloud scale, they can offer a lower cost per transaction or service.

## Pillar 6: Sustainability

Sustainability includes the ability of minimizing the environmental impact of running cloud workloads.

Design Principles:

- **Understand your impact** - Establish performance indicators and evaluate improvements;
- **Establish sustainability goals** - Set long-term goals for each workload, model return on investment (ROI);
- **Maximize utilization** - Right size each workload to maximize the energy efficiency of the underlying hardware and minimize idle resources;
- **Anticipate and adopt new, more efficient hardware and software offerings** - Design for flexibility to adopt new technologies over time;
- **Use managed services** - Shared services reduce the amount of infrastructure. Managed services help automate sustainability best practices as moving infrequent accessed data to cold storage and adjusting compute capacity.
- **Reduce the downstream impact of your cloud workloads** - Reduce the ammount of energy or resources required to use your services and reduce the need for your customers to upgrade their devices.