---
Date: 2025-11-15
Technology: Kubernetes
tags:
  - Containers
  - DevOps
---
**Table of Contents**
- [02. Pods](#02-pods)
  - [Creating new pods](#creating-new-pods)
    - [YAML](#yaml)
    - [`kubectl`](#kubectl)
  - [Checking pod(s) information](#checking-pods-information)

# 02. Pods

A pod in Kubernetes is the **smallest and simplest unit in the Kubernetes object model** that can be created or deployed.

A pod is ephemeral, it can be created, detroyed and re-created regularly.

**Note:** A pod can be a host for multiple containers, however, as a best practice, only one container per pod should be allowed.


- Pods share the same network namespace, including IP address and port space.
- Containers in a pod can communicate with each other using `localhost`.
- To ensure availability and scalability, pods are often managed by higher-level controllers like Deployments, StatefulSets, or DaemonSets.
- Persistent storage can be attached to pods using volumes.
- Kubernetes uses a scheduler to place pods on suitable nodes based on resource requirements and constraints.

## Creating new pods

Pods can either be created from a YAML file, or from a container image.

### YAML

To create pods using YAML files, first, they must be constructed using the following structure:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1 # Required field. Version of the Kubernetes API used to create the object.
kind: Pod      # Required field. Type of object to be created.
metadata:      # Required field. Data about the object.
  name: nginx-pod
  namespace: sandbox # Optional field. Default namespace if empty.
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec: # Required field. Information about the object.
  containers:
     - name: nginx-container
       image: nginx
```

Then, using `kubectl`, run:

```bash
kubectl apply -f <file-name>
```

This will apply the configuration to the specified namespace. If there is no namespace specified, the pods will deploy to the default namespace.

### `kubectl`

To create new pods, using `kubectl` run:

```bash
kubectl run <pod-name> <container-image> -n <namespace>
```

## Checking pod(s) information

To list available pods, using `kubectl` run:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n namespace
# For slightly more detailed information:
kubectl get pods -n namespace -o wide
```

To describe a pod, using `kubectl` run:

```bash
kubectl describe pod/<pod-name> -n namespace
```

To check the logs of a pod, using `kubectl` run:

```bash
kubectl logs <pod_name> -n <namespace>
```