---
Date: 2026-01-02
Technology: Kubernetes
tags:
  - Container_Orchestration
  - DevOps
---
**Table of Contents**

- [06. Namespaces](#06-namespaces)
  - [Auto-Generated Namespaces](#auto-generated-namespaces)
    - [`default`](#default)
    - [`kube-system`](#kube-system)
    - [`kube-public`](#kube-public)
  - [Namespace Commands](#namespace-commands)
    - [Creating a new namespace](#creating-a-new-namespace)
    - [YAML (Declarative)](#yaml-declarative)
    - [`kubectl` (Imperative)](#kubectl-imperative)
    - [Operating within a namespace](#operating-within-a-namespace)
    - [Changing context namespace](#changing-context-namespace)

# 06. Namespaces

A Kubernetes namespace provides a **mechanism for isolating groups of resources** within a single cluster. 

Names of resources need to be **unique within a namespace**, but not across namespaces. 

Namespace-based scoping is applicable only for namespaced objects, (e.g. Deployments, Services, etc.), and not for cluster-wide objects _(e.g. StorageClass, Nodes, PersistentVolumes, etc.)_.

## Auto-Generated Namespaces

By default, a Kubernetes cluster will always generate the following namespaces when being first set up:

### `default`

The `default` namespace is used to deploy objects when no other namespace is specified.

E.g.

This will deploy a new Nginx pod to the default namespace:

```bash
kubectl run nginx-pod --image nginx:latest
```

This will deploy a new Nginx pod to the `sandbox` namespace:

```bash
kubectl run nginx-pod --image nginx:latest -n sandbox
```

### `kube-system`

The `kube-system`namespace is used by a set of objects required for the internal purposes of a cluster.

Examples of such objects are those required by the networking solution and the DNS service.

In order to isolate these critical objects from the users, they are safely stored in this separate namespace. 

### `kube-public`

The `kube-public`namespace is used to create resources that should be made available to all users.

## Namespace Commands

### Creating a new namespace

Namespaces can be created using `kubectl`or YAML definitions.

### YAML (Declarative)

To create namespaces using YAML files, first, they must be constructed using the following structure:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: dev
```

Then, using `kubectl`, run:

```bash
kubectl apply -f <file-name>
```

### `kubectl` (Imperative)

To create namespaces, using `kubectl` run:

```bash
kubectl create namespace <namespace>
```

### Operating within a namespace

To perform operations on a object, on a specific namespace, using `kubectl`, specify the namespace like the following:

```bash
kubectl get <object> -n <namespace>
# Or:
kubectl get <object> --namespace <namespace>
```

### Changing context namespace

In order to avoid having to always specify the same namespace multiple times, the following `kubectl`command can be used to set a namespace as the "default one" for the current context:

```bash
kubectl config set-context $(kubectl config current-context) --namespace=<namespace>
```